# arc-llms
Terraform/Ansible code to build the ARC LLM (and image generation) hosting

This is a slightly involved process.

You will need to get a tenancy with GPUs attached to it. Once you have done that, there is terraform code in `inference-host` which will build your VMs. Having created the VMs, you need to use `attach_gpu.py` to attach a GPU to each VM, **RESTART NOT REBOOT** the VMs so that they migrate to the right machine and then use ansible to install the base environment. Finally, you need to use the appropriate roles to install the right containers and set them to run as daemons.

## Walkthrough

### 1. Obtain tenancy and GPU IDs.

### 2. Modify `inference-host/variables.tf` to suit your environment.

Some things to note:

1. It is assumed that the image is in your tenancy. This is because when I started there were no images in the general store on sl-g01.
2. "username" is just a tag
3. "keyname" sets which SSH key is injected into your VMs.

You may also want to modify the tags that configure ingress because by default the subdomains are `inf01`, `inf02` etc.

### 3. Use Terraform to build your VMs.

```
cd inference-host 
terraform init
terraform apply
```

### 4. Attach GPUs to VMs

We don't have a standardised nice way of doing this so I have written a fairly shonky Python script which does it.

```
python3 attatch_gpu.py <VM id> <GPU id>
```

e.g.


```
python3 attach_gpu.py uccaoke-inference-01-e3190ff38b sl-g01-10-000031000
```

This script will ask Condenser what type that GPU is and add it to the kubevirt config for the VM.

You then need to **RESTART NOT REBOOT** the VM, either through the Rancher UI or through `kubectl virt`/`virtctl`

## 5. Install the base software

As with other things I have built:

```
ansible-playbook -i generate_inventory.py full.yaml
```

This will:

1. Install Docker
2. Install Python3.12 (not actually necessary now development has been done)
3. Install the Nvdia drivers and useful tools.
4. Install and configure Ngnix as a transparent proxy

Step 4. is important for a number of reasons:

1. VLLM only supports one API key for authentication. This is bad.
2. Worse, for "reasons", the API key only protects `/v1/` API calls, and not any of the other API calls, like the ones that let you shut down the server.

So what this does is configure Nginx in the following way:

1. Use TLS so that traffic to ingress is encrypted.
2. Block all requests except those that include a bearer token from `/etc/nginx/nginx.auth` which is auto-generated by ansible. By default it creates 3 API keys and puts copies in your ansible build machine in `.apikey1`, `.apikey2` and `.apikey3`.
3. Proxy requests to `/v1` to port 5500 on localhost. This is where we will put our vllm/image server docker containers
4. Configure logging so that `/var/log/nginx/llm.log` has a log of which key was used for each request.

It is worth changing the contents of `/etc/nginx/nginx.auth` so that keys are named so that they appear in the log. You can also add/delete new keys.

For example:

```
    map $http_authorization $api_user {
         default                     "__unauthenticated__";
         "Bearer HMSWarlockIsBest"   "keith.drummond";
         "Bearer ILoveHMSSaracen"    "richard.chesnaye";
    } 
```

This would result in requests using the bearer token "`ILovedHMSSaracen`" being able to access `/v1/` on the Docker container and being logged by nginx as from `richard.chesnaye` and so on. The default item is the "fail" condition, passing "`__unauthenticated__`" as the `api_user` which means it has NO access to anything. **DO NOT REMOVE THIS ENTRY**

This is obviously not a "production ready" scalable setup as that would require some sort of service to manage and issue tokens.

### 6. Apply roles for different inference servers

#### LLMs

If you look at the role `roles/vllm-qwen-coder` you should see a role that can deploy the vllm docker container serving an OpenAPI compatible endpoint.

#### Image serving

**NOTE:** this is super not production ready! I wrote this with some help from Claude!

Image serving is done by building a docker container that uses FastAPI and the Huggingface diffusers library to serve a model - by default Stable Diffusion XL Turbo which is defined for *fast* inferences.

You can configure the model by either editing `roles/diffusers-sdxl/files/imagesrv.ini` before building the container, or by editing it on the VM and restarting the container as it is bind-mounted into the container. For models like Flux pay attention to the setting of variant - this should be empty.

#### Managing the containers

By default, the containers are run as daemons and set to restart unless explicitly stopped. The container is called `inference` so you can manage it knowing this fact.

For example, to watch vllm's logs on a vllm server:

```
docker logs inference
```

### 7. Connecting to your endpoints

#### Using the LLM:

There is a very simple chat client in `examples/chat`

Modify `llm.ini` appropriately, e.g. Keith Drummond in the authorisation example might make it look like:

```
[OPENAI]
endpoint = https://inf01.arc-llm.condenser.arc.ucl.ac.uk/v1
model = Qwen-Coder
api_key = HMSWarlockIsBest
```

Create a virtualenv, install requirements and run the client:

```
python3.12 -m venv runtime
source runtime/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
<...>
python3 chat.py
Starting up - LLM endpoint = https://inf01.arc-llm.condenser.arc.ucl.ac.uk/v1/Qwen-Coder
? hello
---
🤖 : Hello! How can I help you today?
--- [2.8368186950683594 seconds] 
```

If he wanted to use the LLM endpoint with Claude code he should set:

```
export ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL=https://inf01.arc-llm.condenser.arc.ucl.ac.uk/
export ANTHROPIC_MODEL=Qwen-Coder
export ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN=HMSWarlockIsBest
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=dummykey
```

The last variable (`ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`) is important the first time he runs `claude` because it bypasses the part of the `claude` setup that requires you to log in. He should unset it thereafter otherwise it will conflict with `ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN`.

#### Using the image service

You can also call the image service using the `openai` python library.

```
token = HMSWarlockIsBest
from openai import OpenAI
import base64
import io
from PIL import Image
endpoint = "https://inf01.arc-llm.condenser.arc.ucl.ac.uk/"
client = OpenAI(base_url=f"{endpoint}/v1", api_key=token)
response = client.images.generate(prompt="a white cup of pink tea", n=6, size="512x512")
images = []
for a in response.data:
    images.append(Image.open(io.BytesIO(base64.b64decode(a.b64_json))))

```

`images` will then be a list of PIL/Pillow images you can do whatever you want with.
